doc(update): refactor of initial steps of Bao Hello World (#2)
bao-project/bao-helloworld: README.md

# "Hello world"? We prefer "Hello Bao!"

Welcome to the Bao Hypervisor! Get ready for an interactive journey as we

> explore the world of Bao together. Whether you're a seasoned Bao user or a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
explore the world of Bao together. Whether you're a experience Bao user or a
```

Author: Done!

newcomer, this tour is designed to give you a practical introduction to the Bao
hypervisor.

If you're already familiar with Bao or want to dive into specific setups
provided by our team, feel free to skip ahead to the [Bao demos 

> repository](https://github.com/bao-project/bao-demos).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
provided by our team, feel free to skip ahead to the [Bao demos
```

In this guide, we will take a tour of the different components required to
build a setup using the Bao hypervisor and learn how the different components
interact. For this purpose, the guide contains the following topics:

- A **getting started** section that helps users to prepare the environment
  where we will build the target setups. We also provide extra detailed
  documentation notes regarding some implementation aspects of the hypervisor;

> 

Reviewer: remove newline

Author: Done!

# "Hello world"? We prefer "Hello Bao!"

Welcome to the Bao Hypervisor! Get ready for an interactive journey as we
explore the world of Bao together. Whether you're a seasoned Bao user or a
newcomer, this tour is designed to give you a practical and enthusiastic

> introduction to our powerful hypervisor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
newcomer, this tour is designed to give you a practical introduction to the Bao
hypervisor.
```

Author: Done!

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
newcomer, this tour is designed to give you a practical introduction to the Bao
hypervisor.
```

If you're already familiar with Bao or want to dive into specific setups

> provided by our team, feel free to skip ahead to the Bao demos section.

Reviewer: If you mean a section inside of the README or the bao-demos repo itself, please link it here.

Author: Done!

In this guide, we will take a tour of the different components required to
build a setup using the Bao hypervisor and learn how the different components
interact. For this purpose, the guide contains the following topics:

> - A **getting started** to help users on preparing the environment to build the
>   setup and also some pointers to documentations of Bao (in case you want to go
>   deeper in any detail);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A **getting started** section that helps users to prepare the environment
  where we will build the target setups. We also provide extra detailed
  documentation notes regarding some implementation aspects of the hypervisor;
```

Author: Done!

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A **getting started** to help users prepare the environment to build the
  setup and provide detailed documentation notes regarding some implementation
  aspects of the hypervisor;
```

> - An **initial setup** for giving the first steps on this tour. This section
>   aims to explore the different components of the system and get the first
>   practical example of this guide;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An **initial setup** section that explores the different components of the
  system and gets the first practical example of this guide;
```

Author: Done!

- An **interactive tutorial on changing the guests** running on top of Bao;

- A **practical example** of changing the setup running;

- An example of **how different guests can coexist and interact** with each

>   other;

Reviewer: Remove the newlines between the items of the list. Extra space is being used.

Author: Done!

## 1. Getting Started

Before we dive into the thrilling aspects of Bao, let's make sure you're all
set up and ready to go. In this section, we'll guide you through preparing your
environment to build the setup. Don't worry; we'll provide you with helpful
pointers to Bao's documentation in case you want to explore any details

> further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we'll guide you through preparing a development environment to
build Bao. Don't worry; we'll provide you with helpful pointers to Bao's
implementation details in case you want to explore any further.
```

Author: Done!

### 1.1 Recommended Operating System: Linux (e.g., Ubuntu 22.04)
To make the most of this tutorial and the Bao hypervisor, we recommend using a
Linux-based operating system. While the instructions may work on other
platforms, our focus is on Linux, specifically Ubuntu 22.04 or older versions.

> This will ensure compatibility and an optimal experience throughout the tour.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recommend using a Linux-based operating system to make the most of this
tutorial and the Bao hypervisor. While the instructions may work on other
platforms, this guide is set up on top of a Linux-based machine, specifically
Ubuntu 22.04. This will ensure compatibility and an optimal experience
throughout the tour.
```

Author: Done!

Before we delve deeper, let's ensure you have the right tools at your disposal.
We'll guide you through obtaining and configuring the appropriate cross-compile
toolchain for your target architecture.

|  Architecture  | Toolchain Name       | Download Link                    |
|----------------|:--------------------:|:--------------------------------:|
| Armv8 Aarch64  | aarch64-none-elf-    | [Arm Developer][arm-toolchains]  |
| Armv7/8 Aarch32| arm-none-eabi-       | [Arm Developer][arm-toolchains]  |
| RISC-V         | riscv64-unknown-elf- | [SiFive Tools][riscv-toolchains] |

#### 1.3.2. Installing and Configuring the Toolchain

Download the pre-build binary packages of the appropriate toolchain for your
target architecture. Then, set the **CROSS_COMPILE** environment variable with
the reference toolchain prefix path:

```sh
export CROSS_COMPILE=/path/to/toolchain/install/dir/bin/your-toolchain-prefix-
```

### 1.4 Ensuring Enough Free Space

Please note that having sufficient free space is important for a smooth
experience, particularly because of the Linux image that will be built for the
Linux guest VM. To prevent any space-related issues, we suggest having a

> minimum of 13 GiB of free space available on your system. With your environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
minimum of **13 GiB of free space** available on your system. With your environment
```

Author: Done!

#### 1.3.1. Choosing the Right Toolchain

[arm-toolchains]:
  https://developer.arm.com/downloads/-/arm-gnu-toolchain-downloads
[riscv-toolchains]:
  https://github.com/sifive/freedom-tools/releases

Before we delve deeper, let's ensure you have the right tools at your disposal.
We'll guide you through obtaining and configuring the appropriate cross-compile
toolchain for your target architecture. This step is essential for a smooth

> development experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before we delve deeper, let's ensure you have the right tools at your disposal.
We'll guide you through obtaining and configuring the appropriate cross-compile
toolchain for your target architecture.
```

Author: Done!

|  Architecture  | Toolchain Name       | Download Link                    |
|----------------|:--------------------:|:--------------------------------:|
| Armv8 Aarch64  | aarch64-none-elf-    | [Arm Developer][arm-toolchains]  |
| Armv7/8 Aarch32| arm-none-eabi-       | [Arm Developer][arm-toolchains]  |
| RISC-V         | riscv64-unknown-elf- | [SiFive Tools][riscv-toolchains] |

#### 1.3.2. Installing and Configuring the Toolchain

Install the toolchain. Then, set the **CROSS_COMPILE** environment variable

> with the reference toolchain prefix path:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Download the pre-build binary packages of the appropriate toolchain for your
target architecture. Then, set the **CROSS_COMPILE** environment variable with
the reference toolchain prefix path:
```

Author: Done!

```sh
export CROSS_COMPILE=/path/to/toolchain/install/dir/bin/your-toolchain-prefix-
```

### 1.4 Ensuring Enough Free Space

Please be aware that sufficient free space is crucial for this journey,
especially due to the Linux image that will be built for the Linux guest VM.
To ensure a smooth experience and avoid any space-related issues, we recommend
having at least 13 GiB of free space available on your system. With your
environment set up and all the dependencies installed, you're now ready to dive

> into the world of Bao hypervisor and create your virtualized wonders!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that having sufficient free space is important for a smooth
experience, particularly because of the Linux image that will be built for the
Linux guest VM. To prevent any space-related issues, we suggest having a
minimum of 13 GiB of free space available on your system. With your environment
set up and all the dependencies installed, you are now prepared to explore the
Bao hypervisor and create your first virtualized environment.
```

Author: Done!

| Component         | Required Space | Percentage of space Required |
|-------------------|:--------------:|:---------------------------: |
| Bao               | 155.8 MiB      | 1.23%                        |
| Guest (Linux)     | 10.5 GiB       | 84.74%                       |
| Guest (freeRTOS)  | 24.8 MiB       | 0.20%                        |
| Guest (baremetal) | 4.2 MiB        | 0.03%                        |
| Tools (QEMU)      | 1.7 GiB        | 13.74%                       |
| Tools (u-boot)    | 237 MiB        | 1.87%                        |
| Tools (ATF)       | 52 MiB         | 0.41%                        |

---

## 2. Initial setup - Taking the First Steps!

Now that you're geared up, it's time to take the first steps on this tour. In
the Initial Setup section, we'll explore the different components of the system
and walk you through a practical example to give you a solid foundation.

To ensure a smooth journey ahead, let's start by creating a development
environment. We'll begin by establishing a directory structure for the various
components of our setups. Open up your terminal and execute the following

> commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We'll begin by configuring a development environment and establishing a
directory tree to hold the several components needed. Open up your terminal and
execute the following commands:
```

Author: Done!

```sh
export ROOT_DIR=$(realpath .)
export SETUP_BUILD=$ROOT_DIR/bin

> export PATCHES_DIR=$ROOT_DIR/patches

Reviewer: Please change the line 140 to:
Upon completing these commands, your directory tree should look like this:

Author: Done!

> 

Reviewer: Change line 153 to:
`### 2.1. Building Your First Bao Guest`

Author: Done!

[bao-demos-platforms]: https://github.com/bao-project/bao-demos#appendix-i

Let's kickstart your journey by building your inaugural Bao guest! Here, you'll
gain hands-on experience crafting a Baremetal Guest. Let's get that virtual
machine up and running!But before we dive into the hands-on excitement, let's
understand the setup we're crafting. Our goal is to deploy a baremetal system

> atop the Bao hypervisor, as illustrated in the figure below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's start the journey of building your first Bao guest. Here, you'll acquire
hands-on experience in creating a Baremetal guest. Before we move on to the
practical aspects, let's first understand the setup we're building. Our goal is
to deploy a baremetal guest on top of the Bao hypervisor, as shown in the
figure below:
```

Author: Done!

> ![Init Setup](/img/single-guest.svg)

Reviewer: On the image, I would increase the size of the font and the blocks size inside the baremental guest (.e.g, Timer, etc)

Author: Done!

:information_source: For the sake of simplicity and accessibility, we'll detach
from physical hardware and use QEMU (don't worry, we'll guide you through its
installation later in the tutorial). However, remember that you can apply these

> steps to various [other platforms][arm-toolchains].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:information_source: For the sake of simplicity and accessibility, we'll use
the QEMU emulator (don't worry, we'll guide you through its installation later
in the tutorial). However, remember that you can apply these steps to various
[other platforms][arm-toolchains].
```
The link should point to the boards supported by Bao

Author: Done!

Reviewer: I don't see the all the changes commited @Diogo21Costa

To start, let's define an environment variable for the baremetal app source
code:

```sh
export BAREMETAL_SRCS=$ROOT_DIR/baremetal
```

Then, clone the Bao baremetal guest application we've prepared (you can skip
this step if you already have your own baremetal source):
```sh
git clone https://github.com/bao-project/bao-baremetal-guest.git\
    --branch demo $BAREMETAL_SRCS
```

And now, let's compile it (for simplicity, our example includes a Makefile to
compile the baremetal compilation):

```sh
git -C $BAREMETAL_SRCS apply $PATCHES_DIR/baremetal.patch
make -C $BAREMETAL_SRCS PLATFORM=qemu-aarch64-virt
```

Upon completing these steps, you'll find a binary file in the
``BAREMETAL_SRCS`` directory. If you followed our provided Makefile, this
precious gem will bear the name ``baremetal.bin``. Now, move the binary file to

> your build directory (``BUILD_GUESTS_DIR``):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon completing these steps, you'll find a binary file in the
``BAREMETAL_SRCS`` directory. If you followed our provided Makefile, the binary
takes the name ``baremetal.bin``. Now, move the binary file to your build
directory (``BUILD_GUESTS_DIR``):
```

Author: Done!

```sh
mkdir -p $BUILD_GUESTS_DIR/baremetal-setup
cp $BAREMETAL_SRCS/build/qemu-aarch64-virt/baremetal.bin \
    $BUILD_GUESTS_DIR/baremetal-setup/baremetal.bin
```

### 2.2. Build Bao Hypervisor - Laying the Foundation
Next up, we'll guide you through building the Bao Hypervisor itself. This
critical step forms the backbone of your virtualization environment.

Our first stride in this journey involves configuring the hypervisor using
Bao's configuration file. For this specific setup, we're offering you the
[configuration file](configs/baremetal.c) to ease the process. If you're
curious to explore different configuration options, our detailed our detailed
Bao config documentation is
[here](https://github.com/bao-project/bao-docs/tree/wip/bao-\

> classic_config) to help.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next up, we'll guide you through building the Bao Hypervisor itself. The first
step involves configuring the hypervisor using Bao's configuration file. For
this specific setup, we're providing you the [configuration
file](configs/baremetal.c) to ease the process. If you're curious to explore
different configuration options, our detailed Bao config documentation is
[here](https://github.com/bao-project/bao-docs/tree/wip/bao-\
classic_config) to help.
```

Author: Done!

```c
VM_IMAGE(baremetal_image, XSTR(BUILD_GUESTS_DIR/baremetal-setup/baremetal.bin));
```

:warning: If you are using a directory structure of the one presented in the

> tutorial, please make sure to update the following code in the

Reviewer: which following code?

Author: Solved!

[configuration file](configs/baremetal.c).

Undoubtedly, if we're envisioning our baremetal system dancing atop the
hypervisor stage, we first need that hypervisor in place. Fear not, for our
adept team has already shouldered the arduous task. Bao stands ready and
waiting for you to harness its power. No need to roll up your sleeves; it's a

> breeze. Let's embark on this stage-setting journey:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we must build Bao. There's no need for any complex setup; it's
straightforward. Let's begin this stage-setting process:
```

Author: Done!

#### 2.2.2. Copying Your Configuration

Now, let's ensure that the configuration is copied to the working directory
with the following commands:

```sh

> mkdir -p $mkdir -p $BUILD_BAO_DIR/config

Reviewer: I suppose this is an error...

```suggestion
mkdir -p $BUILD_BAO_DIR/config
```

Author: Done!

directory called `bao.bin`. Now, let's move the binary file to your build
directory:

```sh
cp $BAO_SRCS/bin/qemu-aarch64-virt/baremetal/bao.bin $BUILD_BAO_DIR/bao.bin
```

## 3. Build Firmware - Powering Up Your Setup

Firmware is essential to power your virtual world. That's why we're here to
assist you in obtaining the necessary firmware tailored to your target platform
(you can find the instructions to build the firmware for other platforms
[here](https://github.com/bao-project/bao-demos#b5-build-firmware-and-deploy)).

### 3.1 Getting Started with the QEMU Platform

QEMU provides a convenient alternative to a hardware platform. If you haven't
installed it yet, don't worry. We're here to walk you through the process of
building and installing it. In this guide, we'll target the Aarch64
architecture.

If you already have qemu-system-aarch64, or if you'd prefer to install it
directly using a package manager or another method, just make sure you're
working with version 7.2.0 or higher. In that case, feel free to move on to the
[next step](#32-now-you-need-u-boot).

To install QEMU, simply run the following commands:

> 

Reviewer: On the commands below, I believe this command is repeated:
``mkdir -p $ROOT_DIR/tools/bin``

Author: You're correct, fixed!

> 

Reviewer: I suppose this is an error
`mkdir -p $ROOT_DIR/tools/bin`

Author: Fixed!

#### 2.2.2. Copying Your Configuration

Now, let's ensure your unique configuration is seamlessly integrated. Copy your

> configuration file to the working directory with the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, let's ensure that the configuration is copied to the working directory
with the following commands:
```

Author: Done!

```sh
mkdir -p $mkdir -p $BUILD_BAO_DIR/config
cp -L $ROOT_DIR/configs/baremetal.c\

>     $BUILD_BAO_DIR/config/baremetal.c

Reviewer: ```suggestion
cp -L $ROOT_DIR/configs/baremetal.c $BUILD_BAO_DIR/config/baremetal.c
```

Author: Done!

```

#### 2.2.3. Compiling Bao Hypervisor
With all set, it's time to bring your Bao Hypervisor to life. You now just need

> to compile it!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We are all set! It's time to bring the Bao Hypervisor to life. Now, we just
need to compile it!
```

Author: Done!

```sh
make -C $BAO_SRCS\
    PLATFORM=qemu-aarch64-virt\
    CONFIG_REPO=$ROOT_DIR/configs\
    CONFIG=baremetal\
    CONFIG_BUILTIN=y\
    CPPFLAGS=-DBAO_WRKDIR_IMGS=$BUILD_GUESTS_DIR
```

Upon completing these steps, you'll find a binary file in the BAO_SRCS

> directory, called bao.bin. Now, move the binary file to your build directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upon completing these steps, you'll find a binary file in the `BAO_SRCS`
directory called `bao.bin`. Now, let's move the binary file to your build
directory:
```

Author: Done!

```sh
cp $BAO_SRCS/bin/qemu-aarch64-virt/baremetal/bao.bin $BUILD_BAO_DIR/bao.bin
```

## 3. Build Firmware - Powering Up Your Setup

Firmware is essential to power your virtual world. That's why we're here to
assist you in obtaining the necessary firmware tailored to your target platform
(you can find the instructions to build the firmware for other platforms
[here](https://github.com/bao-project/bao-demos#b5-build-firmware-and-deploy)).

### 3.1 Getting Started with the QEMU Platform

QEMU provides a convenient alternative to a hardware platform. If you haven't
installed it yet, don't worry. We're here to walk you through the process of

> building and installing it. In this guide, we'll focus on Aarch64 QEMU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
building and installing it. In this guide, we'll target the Aarch64
architecture.
```

Author: Done!

However, if you already have qemu-system-aarch64, or if you'd prefer to install

> it directly using a package manager or another method, just make sure you're

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already have qemu-system-aarch64, or if you'd prefer to install it
directly using a package manager or another method, just make sure you're
```

Author: Done!

sudo make install
```

> ### 3.2 Installing u-boot

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3.2 Installing U-Boot
```

Author: Done!

> To get u-boot up and running, simply execute the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get U-Boot up and running, simply execute the following commands:
```

Author: Done!

cp $UBOOT_DIR/u-boot.bin $TOOLS_DIR
```

### 3.3 Let's Build the TrustedFirmware-A

We're almost there! Now, let's go ahead and build TF-A:

```sh
export ATF_DIR=$ROOT_DIR/tools/arm-trusted-firmware

> git clone https://github.com/bao-project/arm-trusted-firmware.git\

Reviewer: The below command as an extra `$`

`make PLAT=qemu bl1 fip BL33=$$TOOLS_DIR/u-boot.bin\
   QEMU_USE_GIC_DRIVER=QEMU_GICV3`

Author: Fixed!

cp $UBOOT_DIR/u-boot.bin $TOOLS_DIR
```

> ### 3.3 Let's Build TF-A

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3.3 Let's Build the TrustedFirmware-A
```

Author: Done!

modify your virtual environment can be quite useful. In the upcoming sections,
we'll provide you with detailed, step-by-step instructions to implement various
changes to your guests. By the end of this segment, you'll have gained a deeper
insight into how the different components interact, and you'll be skilful at
making the necessary adjustments to meet your requirements.

### 5.1 Modify the baremetal VM

Let's begin by modifying the baremetal VM. We'll increase its memory from 64 MiB
to 128 MiB. To do this, follow these steps:

#### 5.1.1 Update the VM memory
1. Open the platform configuration file located at 
   ``baremetal/src/platform/qemu-aarch64-virt/inc/plat.h``.
2. Modify the platform memory size from 64MiB (0x4000000) to 128 MiB
   (0x8000000):

```diff
 #define PLAT_MEM_BASE 0x50000000
-#define PLAT_MEM_SIZE 0x4000000
+#define PLAT_MEM_SIZE 0x8000000
```

3. Recompile the baremetal:

```sh
make -C $BAREMETAL_SRCS PLATFORM=qemu-aarch64-virt
cp $BAREMETAL_SRCS/build/qemu-aarch64-virt/baremetal.bin \
    $BUILD_GUESTS_DIR/baremetal-setup/baremetal.bin
```

#### 5.1.3 Update Bao configuration
After updating the baremetal, you need to modify the Bao configuration file:

> 1. Update the configuration (``configs/baremetal.c``) with the new memory size:

Reviewer: When files need to be manually rewritten, please add the source line to be modified to be easier to detect since we are only seeing a snap of the code.

Author: Good point, added a line count!

## 4. Let's Try It Out! - Unleash the Power

> Now that everything is set up, let's revise all the steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that everything is set up, let's revise all the steps performed yet:
```

Author: Done!

:white_check_mark: Build guest (baremetal)

:white_check_mark: Build bao hypervisor

:white_check_mark: Build firmware (qemu)

> Once everything is in place, we'll proceed with the QEMU launch. Here are the
> necessary commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once everything is in place, we'll proceed with the QEMU launch. This is the
command to run:
```

Author: Done!

```sh
qemu-system-aarch64 -nographic\
   -M virt,secure=on,virtualization=on,gic-version=3 \
   -cpu cortex-a53 -smp 4 -m 4G\
   -bios $TOOLS_DIR/flash.bin \
   -device loader,file="$BUILD_BAO_DIR/bao.bin",addr=0x50000000,force-raw=on\
   -device virtio-net-device,netdev=net0 \
   -netdev user,id=net0,hostfwd=tcp:127.0.0.1:5555-:22\
   -device virtio-serial-device -chardev pty,id=serial3 \
   -device virtconsole,chardev=serial3
```

> Now, you should see TF-A and U-boot initialization messages. After, set up
> connections and jump into the world of Bao. QEMU will reveal the
> pseudoterminals where it placed the virtio serial. Here's an example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you should see TF-A and U-Boot initialization log. Now, let's set up
connections and jump into Bao. QEMU will reveal the pseudo-terminals that where
placed in the virtio serial. Here's an example:
```

Author: Done!

```sh
char device redirected to /dev/pts/4 (label serial3)
```

To make the connection, open a fresh terminal window and establish a connection
to the specified pseudoterminal. Here's how:

```sh
screen /dev/pts/4
```

> Finally, make u-boot jump to where the bao image was loaded:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Finally, make U-Boot jump to where the bao image was loaded:
```

Author: Done!

```sh
go 0x50000000
```
And you should have an output as follows:

[asciinema-video]: https://asciinema.org/a/Kn7yUQ6V7Hy1sB6OAsAjOCthK
[asciinema-image]: https://asciinema.org/a/Kn7yUQ6V7Hy1sB6OAsAjOCthK.png

[![asciicast][asciinema-image]][asciinema-video]

> When you want to leave QEMU press `Ctrl-a` then `x`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To exit QEMU hold press `Ctrl-A` then `X`.
```

Author: Done!

## 5. Adjusting Your Setup

As we progress, let's focus on fine-tuning your Bao setup. Having the ability to
modify your virtual environment can be quite useful. In the upcoming sections,
we'll provide you with detailed, step-by-step instructions to implement various
changes to your guests. By the end of this segment, you'll have gained a deeper

> insight into how the different components interact, and you'll be skilfull at

Reviewer: ```suggestion
insight into how the different components interact, and you'll be skilful at
```

Author: Done!

making the necessary adjustments to meet your requirements.

### 5.1 Add a second guest - freeRTOS

> In this section, we'll delve into various scenarios and demonstrate how to
> configure specific environments using Bao. One of Bao's notable strengths lies
> in its flexibility, allowing you to tailor your setup to a range of
> requirements.
> 
> Let's kick things off by incorporating a second VM running FreeRTOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we'll delve into various scenarios and demonstrate how to
configure specific environments using Bao. Let's kick things off by
incorporating a second VM running FreeRTOS.
```

Author: Done!

git clone --recursive --shallow-submodules\
    https://github.com/bao-project/freertos-over-bao.git\
    $FREERTOS_SRCS --branch demo
git -C $FREERTOS_SRCS apply $PATCHES_DIR/freeRTOS.patch
make -C $FREERTOS_SRCS PLATFORM=qemu-aarch64-virt $FREERTOS_PARAMS
```

Upon completing these steps, you'll find a binary file in the `FREERTOS_SRCS`
directory, called `free_rtos.bin`. Move the binary file to your build directory
(`BUILD_GUESTS_DIR`):

```sh
mkdir -p $BUILD_GUESTS_DIR/baremetal-freeRTOS-setup
cp $FREERTOS_SRCS/build/qemu-aarch64-virt/freertos.bin \
    $BUILD_GUESTS_DIR/baremetal-freeRTOS-setup/free-rtos.bin
```

#### 5.1.2. Integrating the new guest

> Now, we have both guests needed for our setup. However, there are some steps
> required to fit the two VMs on our platform. Let's understand the differences
> between the configuration of the first setup and the configuration of the
> second setup.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, we have both guests compiled and ready for our dual-guest setup. However,
there are some steps required to fit the two VMs on our platform. Let's
understand the differences between the configuration of the first setup and the
configuration of the second setup.
```

Author: Done!

git clone --recursive --shallow-submodules\
    https://github.com/bao-project/freertos-over-bao.git\
    $FREERTOS_SRCS --branch demo

> git -C $FREERTOS_SRCS apply $PATCHES_DIR/freeRTOS.patch

Reviewer: The patch fails. I believe is related to the source line number

Author: Fixed!

make -C $FREERTOS_SRCS PLATFORM=qemu-aarch64-virt $FREERTOS_PARAMS
```

Upon completing these steps, you'll find a binary file in the `FREERTOS_SRCS`
directory, called `free_rtos.bin`. Move the binary file to your build directory
(`BUILD_GUESTS_DIR`):

```sh

> mkdir -p $BUILD_GUESTS_DIR/baremetal-freeRTOS-setup

Reviewer: This step has already be taken (line:474)

Author: Fixed!

cp $FREERTOS_SRCS/build/qemu-aarch64-virt/freertos.bin \
    $BUILD_GUESTS_DIR/baremetal-freeRTOS-setup/free-rtos.bin
```

#### 5.2.2. Integrating the new guest

Now, we have both guests compiled and ready for our dual-guest setup. However,
there are some steps required to fit the two VMs on our platform. Let's
understand the differences between the configuration of the first setup and the
configuration of the second setup.

> First of all, we need to add the second VM image:

Reviewer: Please mention explicitly where the config file is.

Author: Done!

+        },
```

#### 5.2.3. Let's rebuild Bao!

As we've seen, changing the guests includes changing the configuration file.
Therefore, we need to repeat the process of building Bao. First, copy your
configuration file to the working directory with the following commands:

```sh

> mkdir -p $mkdir -p $BUILD_BAO_DIR/config

Reviewer: This step was already been taken previously.

Author: Fixed!

```

Then, you just need to compile it. Please note that the flag `CONFIG` defines
the configuration file to be used on the compilation of Bao!

```sh
make -C $BAO_SRCS\
    PLATFORM=qemu-aarch64-virt\
    CONFIG_REPO=$ROOT_DIR/configs\
    CONFIG=baremetal-freeRTOS\
    CONFIG_BUILTIN=y\
    CPPFLAGS=-DBAO_WRKDIR_IMGS=$BUILD_GUESTS_DIR
```

Upon completing these steps, you'll find a binary file in the `BAO_SRCS`
directory, called `bao.bin`. Move the binary file to your build directory
(`BUILD_BAO_DIR`):

```sh
cp $BAO_SRCS/bin/qemu-aarch64-virt/baremetal-freeRTOS/bao.bin \
    $BUILD_BAO_DIR/bao.bin
```

#### 5.2.4. Ready for launch!

Now, you have everything configured for testing your new setup! Just run the
following command:
```sh
qemu-system-aarch64 -nographic \
  -M virt,secure=on,virtualization=on,gic-version=3 \
  -cpu cortex-a53 -smp 4 -m 4G \
  -bios $TOOLS_DIR/flash.bin \
  -device loader,file="$BUILD_BAO_DIR/bao.bin",addr=0x50000000,force-raw=on \
  -device virtio-net-device,netdev=net0 \
  -netdev user,id=net0,hostfwd=tcp:127.0.0.1:5555-:22 \
  -device virtio-serial-device -chardev pty,id=serial3 \
  -device virtconsole,chardev=serial3
```

> Now, you should have an output as follows (video

Reviewer: I think you should keep mentioning the `go 0x50000000`

Author: Done!

git apply $ROOT_DIR/srcs/patches/$LINUX_VERSION/*.patch
```

> Setup and environment variable pointing to the target architecture and platform

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setup an environment variable pointing to the target architecture and platform
```

Author: Done!

cd $BUILDROOT_SRCS
```

> Use our provided buildroot defconfig, which itselfs points to the a Linux
> kernel defconfig and patches and build.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use our provided buildroot defconfig, which points to the a Linux kernel
defconfig and patches and build.
```

Author: Done!

    },

    // freeRTOS configuration
    {
-       .cpu_num = 2,
+       .cpu_num = 1,
        ...
    },

    // linux configuration
    {
+       .cpu_num = 2,
    }
```

> Additionally, you have the option to configure the Linux VM to integrate various
> devices and even memory regions. For specific details regarding this setup,
> refer to the the [configuration file](/configs/baremetal-freeRTOS-linux.c).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, you have the option to configure the Linux VM to integrate
various devices and even memory regions. For specific details regarding this
setup, refer to the the [configuration
file](/configs/baremetal-freeRTOS-linux.c).
```

Author: Done!

results of your work. Let's proceed:

```sh
qemu-system-aarch64 -nographic \
  -M virt,secure=on,virtualization=on,gic-version=3 \
  -cpu cortex-a53 -smp 4 -m 4G \
  -bios $TOOLS_DIR/flash.bin \
  -device loader,file="$BUILD_BAO_DIR/bao.bin",addr=0x50000000,force-raw=on \
  -device virtio-net-device,netdev=net0 \
  -netdev user,id=net0,hostfwd=tcp:127.0.0.1:5555-:22 \
  -device virtio-serial-device -chardev pty,id=serial3 \
  -device virtconsole,chardev=serial3
```

The platform's first available UART is assigned to the baremetal and the
FreeRTOS guests. In this manner, you can connect to them using the following
command:

```sh
screen /dev/pts/4
```

The Linux guest is also accessible via ssh at the static address 192.168.42.15.
The password for root is root.

After all, you should see an output as follows:

[asciinema-video3]: https://asciinema.org/a/UZLyjpAM53eBJMYRCPEkSZsb8
[asciinema-image3]: https://asciinema.org/a/UZLyjpAM53eBJMYRCPEkSZsb8.png

[![asciicast][asciinema-image3]][asciinema-video3]

## 5.3 Facilitating Guest Interaction

In specific scenarios, it's important for guests to establish a communication

> channel. To achieve this, we'll make use of shared memory and Inter-Process
> Communication (IPC) mechanisms, enabling the Linux VM to seamlessly interact
> with the system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
channel. To achieve this, we'll make use of a shared memory object and
Inter-Process Communication (IPC) mechanisms, enabling the Linux VM to
seamlessly interact with the system.
```

Author: Done!

+       .cpu_num = 1,
        ...
    },
    // linux configuration
    {
+       .cpu_num = 3,
    }
```

Additionally, you have the option to configure the Linux VM to integrate
various devices and even memory regions. For specific details regarding this
setup, refer to the the [configuration file](/configs/baremetal-linux.c).

#### 5.3.3. Let's rebuild Bao!

As we've seen, changing the guests includes changing the configuration file.
Therefore, we need to repeat the process of building Bao. First, copy your
configuration file to the working directory with the following commands:

```sh

> mkdir -p $mkdir -p $BUILD_BAO_DIR/config

Reviewer: Command repeated

Author: Fixed!

```sh
make -C $BAO_SRCS\
    PLATFORM=qemu-aarch64-virt\
    CONFIG_REPO=$ROOT_DIR/configs\
    CONFIG=baremetal-linux\
    CONFIG_BUILTIN=y\
    CPPFLAGS=-DBAO_WRKDIR_IMGS=$BUILD_GUESTS_DIR
```

Upon completing these steps, you'll find a binary file in the `BAO_SRCS`
directory, called `bao.bin`. Move the binary file to your build directory
(`BUILD_BAO_DIR`):

```sh
cp $BAO_SRCS/bin/qemu-aarch64-virt/baremetal-linux/bao.bin \
    $BUILD_BAO_DIR/bao.bin
```

#### 5.3.4. Ready to Launch!

With all the necessary components in place, it's time to launch QEMU and see the
results of your work. Let's proceed:

```sh
qemu-system-aarch64 -nographic \
  -M virt,secure=on,virtualization=on,gic-version=3 \
  -cpu cortex-a53 -smp 4 -m 4G \
  -bios $TOOLS_DIR/flash.bin \
  -device loader,file="$BUILD_BAO_DIR/bao.bin",addr=0x50000000,force-raw=on \
  -device virtio-net-device,netdev=net0 \
  -netdev user,id=net0,hostfwd=tcp:127.0.0.1:5555-:22 \
  -device virtio-serial-device -chardev pty,id=serial3 \
  -device virtconsole,chardev=serial3
```

To make the connection, open a fresh terminal window and establish a connection
to the specified pseudoterminal. Here's how:

```sh

> screen /dev/pts/4

Reviewer: the device could not be the 4. Just warn to watch the qemu output.

Author: Done!

```

The Linux guest is also accessible via ssh at the static address 192.168.42.15.
The password for root is root.

After all, you should see an output as follows (video
[here](https://asciinema.org/a/616290)):

![baremetal-linux](/img/.gif/baremetal_linux.gif)

## 5.4 Facilitating Guest Interaction

In specific scenarios, it's important for guests to establish a communication
channel. To achieve this, we'll make use of a shared memory object and
Inter-Process Communication (IPC) mechanisms, enabling the Linux VM to
seamlessly interact with the system.

![Init Setup](/img/triple-guest-shmem.svg)

### 5.4.1. Add Shared Memory and IPC to our guest

Let's start by changin our baremetal to handle messages sent via IPC. We've
prepared a patch that can be applied directly to the baremetal source code.
To apply the changes, use the following command:
```sh

> git -C $BAREMETAL_SRCS apply $PATCHES_DIR/baremetal_shmem.patch

Reviewer: Patch is failing

Author: Fixed!

Now, you're ready to execute the final setup:

```sh
qemu-system-aarch64 -nographic \
  -M virt,secure=on,virtualization=on,gic-version=3 \
  -cpu cortex-a53 -smp 4 -m 4G \
  -bios $TOOLS_DIR/flash.bin \
  -device loader,file="$BUILD_BAO_DIR/bao.bin",addr=0x50000000,force-raw=on \
  -device virtio-net-device,netdev=net0 \
  -netdev user,id=net0,hostfwd=tcp:127.0.0.1:5555-:22 \
  -device virtio-serial-device -chardev pty,id=serial3 \
  -device virtconsole,chardev=serial3
```

> If all went according to plan, you should be able to spot the IPC on Linux by

Reviewer: Is it possible to have a asciicinema video here too?

Finally, move the binary file to the (compiled) guests folder:
```sh
cp $LINUX_DIR/linux-build/$LINUX_VM.bin \
    $BUILD_GUESTS_DIR/baremetal-linux-shmem-setup/$LINUX_VM.bin
```

### 5.4.2. Rebuild Bao

Given that you've modified one of the guests, it's now essential to rebuild
Bao:
```sh

> mkdir -p $mkdir -p $BUILD_BAO_DIR/config

Reviewer: Command repeated

Author: Fixed!
